On Sal Nitrum and Nitro·Ae'rri1l sz'nt 81

the air contains and by their collision drive them
forcibly out, and that at last from these, violently
ejected and in vehement commotion‚ fire is produced,
as will be shown more fully below.

Further, it is a reasonable supposition that the ae'rial
particles, deprived in the manner aforesaid ol nitro·
aiirial particleS, become not only unfit for sustain·
ing fire but also change from rigid to flexible and in
consequence are deprived of their elasticity, for that
the rigidity of aerial particles is due to nitro-aerial
particles fixed in them, while their elasticity results
from their rigidity, I have already endeavoured to show.
lndeed adrial particles when passing out from flame
appear to be in acondition very similar to that of a
steel plate which is slowly cooled after it has been
heated, for this also loses its elasticity as the fiery .
particles extricate themselves from its structure, and
becomes moreover incapable of having, as before,
sparks struck out of it by flint. And in fact fire seems
to be nothing else than a collection of very minute
sparks very densely struck out from adrial particles by
the collision of sulphureous particles. For the caseis
very much as if we were to suppose that innumerable
little particles of flint and steel collide at the same
instant with each other. For as aerial particles are
solid bodies and are rigid like steel plates‚ they seem
to be fit enough for having fire struck out of them.
Hence if the sulphureous particles are too volatile and
fine the flame produced by themis very sluggish, such
as is the flame of burning spirit of wine or the very
feeble and almost harmless fires which are produced by
the sulphureous effluviae of animals, for since these
extremely fine and volatile sulphureous particles only
collide in a feeble and gentle manner with the a'e'rial '

particles, they are scarcely able to strike effectively
F

 

