On the Respiration of the Foetus, etc. 219

regard to this it is probable that the primogenial Ι
liquids of the egg (which, as has been already shown,

abound with aerial matter), continuously brought by
the umbilical vessels to the chick, perform for it the
part of not only of nutrition but also ol respiration,
just as is done in the uterus.

If any one shall here object that there is not so
much air contained in the egg as is required to supply
the want ol respiration during the whole period ol
incubation,I answer that the air stored in the egg is
not common air but is that aerial something which is
separated from common air by the action of the lungs.
Indeed, of the air which we inhale it is onlya very ι
small portion that is transmitted into the mass of the
blood; what remains of the air is expelled in ex-
piration as being useless. But what there is of air,
pure and vital (such as we are to suppose contained in
the egg), may be compared and held to be equal to a
great quantity of common air.

Nor is it to be forgotten that the foetus in the egg
and in the uterus. makes but the very smallest
expenditure of nitro-aeria} particles; for these are
mostly required for muscular contractiori and for
carrying on the concoctions in the viscera, as we shall
elsewhere show. Hence, according as any one
exercises himself more or less, so he has need of a
more intense, or of only a more moderate respiration.
And undoubtedly in drowsy affections, in which the
animal functions are almost suspended, respiration
seems to be all but suppressed. Wherefore, as the
foetus in the uterus and in the egg keeps holiday from
nearly every movement except that of the heart, a
smaller ration of nitro-aerial particles from the arterial
blood of the mother, or from the fluids ol the egg,
abundantly suffices for -its requirements.

 

